README.md, before:

# VIDT staking
![Mock screen](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100821/105279406-c05e3e80-5ba7-11eb-9c97-d4fff8c6a8ef.jpeg)

# Quickstart

## Installation

```
npm install
```

## Run tests

```
npm test
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file with keys

```
MNEMONIC="..."
INFURA_ID="..."
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY="..."
```

* Deployment to rinkeby is done via [Infura](https://infura.io/).
* Create an [Etherscan API key](https://etherscan.io/myapikey) for contract verification.

_Forks of this project should also modify `config.json`. Decimals aren't considered in the configuration._

## Deployment

### Ganache

[Ganache](https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache) is a personal Ethereum blockchain for development and
tests.

```
npm run migrate -- --network development
```

### Rinkeby

To deploy on the [Rinkeby](https://rinkeby.io/) Ethereum testnet, make sure your wallet has enough ETH to pay for the
GAS.

[Faucet 1](https://testnet.help/en/ethfaucet/rinkeby) | [Faucet 2](https://faucet.rinkeby.io/)

```
npm run migrate -- --network rinkeby
npm run verify -- --network rinkeby
```

You may also want to verify the ERC20Mock contract on Etherscan.

```
node_modules/.bin/truffle verify ERC20Mock
```

_Verification may fail because of rate limits. Just try again._

### Ethereum mainnet

```
npm run migrate -- --network mainnet
npm run verify -- --network mainnet
```

# How it works

The `Deposits` contract holds the deposited tokens of the users. The contract can be configured to accept multiple
tokens as deposit.

The `Staking` contract will distribute ERC20 tokens to participants. This is a fixed amount relative to the number of
tokens deposited to the contract.

## Creation

The `Deposits` contract can be created without arguments.

The following settings are specified in the constructor of the `Staking` contract

* the address of the ERC20 token
* the starting block
* the duration (in blocks)
* the soft lock period (in blocks)

## Fund

The `Staking` contract will transfer the reward from the contract owner to the staking users. The owner must set an
allowance for the `Staking` contract using the `approve()` method of the ERC20.

**Do not transfer tokens to the `Staking` or `Deposits` contract. These tokens will be lost.**

## Adding token pools

Tokens are distributes amount users that has deposited specific ERC20 tokens. These token pools must be specified in the
contract using the `add` method of the `Staking` contract. Each token pool have a `pid` which is an incremental number

Token pools must be added before the starting block.

### Reward per token deposited

The `add` method takes a `rewardAmount` and `rewardDivider` parameter. If the amount is `10` and the divider is `1000`,
the contract will pay out `10 / 1000 = 0.01` for every deposited token.

## Capped deposit

It's possible to cap the deposit for a specific token using the `cap` method on the `Deposits` contract. This method
takes 4 parameters; `referenceToken`, `referenceAmount`, `cappedToken`, `cappedAmount`.

Example; if the reference amount is `10000` of token FOO, and the capped amount is `500000` of token BAR, then users
can deposit max `5 BAR` per `1 FOO`. 

## Deposit

To participate in staking, users must deposit tokens using the `deposit` method on the `Deposit` contract.

Before using this method, the staking contract must be allowed to transfer the tokens. This is done via the `approve`
method on the token contract.

The current deposit can be checked using the `deposited` method.

The `maxDeposit` method provides how many tokens a user is allowed to deposit in case of a capped token. 

## Withdraw

Participants can withdraw their deposited tokens and rewards at any time using the `withdraw` method on the `Staking`
contract.

The `withdraw` method on the `Deposit` contract should only be used in case of an emergency. The user will get back the
deposit but not receive any rewards.

## Reward

Each participant has a pending reward which is hold by the staking contract. The pending reward can be checked using
the `pending` method.

When the program has ended, the user is able to harvest the reward from the `Staking` contract. Calling the `harvest`
method will transfer the reward from the contract owner to the user. The `harvest` method differs from the `withdraw`
method, as it will only transfer the reward and will not withdraw the staked tokens.

When the deposited tokens are withdrawn, the contract will also pay out the reward.

### Soft lock

A soft lock period is specified when creating the contract. If a user withdraws during this period, a part of the reward
will be burned instead of paid out.

The penalty is a percentage of the reward. This is 100% at the starting block and 0% when the soft lock ends. The
penalty is calculated with a linear formula.

### Statistics

The `paidOut` property of the `Staking` contract contains the total number of tokens that are paid out as a reward.

The `burned` property of the `Staking` contract contains the total number of tokens burned as a penalty during the soft
lock period.

## Administrative actions

There are a number of administrative actions that can only be performed by the contract owner.

### Extending

The staking program can be extended by calling the `extend` method. This will set a new end date.

It is not possible to extend the soft lock.

### Termination

The program can be terminated by the owner by calling the `terminate` method. No more rewards will be given through this
contract. Users may harvest the pending reward from the contract.

This will also end the soft lock period, so rewards are paid out in full.

### Replacing the program

Terminating the contract can be used to replace the program. Deposits stay intact, so it's possible to create a new
program based on the existing deposits.

The new contract will not hold the rewards of the terminated contract, so the frontend must combine the rewards of
both contracts in the UI.

Commit message:

Added `deposit1`, `deposit2`, and `deposit3` methods. Assert after adding the tokens, so the order or args doesn't matter. Added `depositedCapped` method.

README.md, after:

# VIDT staking
![Mock screen](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100821/105279406-c05e3e80-5ba7-11eb-9c97-d4fff8c6a8ef.jpeg)

# Quickstart

## Installation

```
npm install
```

## Run tests

```
npm test
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file with keys

```
MNEMONIC="..."
INFURA_ID="..."
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY="..."
```

* Deployment to rinkeby is done via [Infura](https://infura.io/).
* Create an [Etherscan API key](https://etherscan.io/myapikey) for contract verification.

_Forks of this project should also modify `config.json`. Decimals aren't considered in the configuration._

## Deployment

### Ganache

[Ganache](https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache) is a personal Ethereum blockchain for development and
tests.

```
npm run migrate -- --network development
```

### Rinkeby

To deploy on the [Rinkeby](https://rinkeby.io/) Ethereum testnet, make sure your wallet has enough ETH to pay for the
GAS.

[Faucet 1](https://testnet.help/en/ethfaucet/rinkeby) | [Faucet 2](https://faucet.rinkeby.io/)

```
npm run migrate -- --network rinkeby
npm run verify -- --network rinkeby
```

You may also want to verify the ERC20Mock contract on Etherscan.

```
node_modules/.bin/truffle verify ERC20Mock
```

_Verification may fail because of rate limits. Just try again._

### Ethereum mainnet

```
npm run migrate -- --network mainnet
npm run verify -- --network mainnet
```

# How it works

The `Deposits` contract holds the deposited tokens of the users. The contract can be configured to accept multiple
tokens as deposit.

The `Staking` contract will distribute ERC20 tokens to participants. This is a fixed amount relative to the number of
tokens deposited to the contract.

## Creation

The `Deposits` contract can be created without arguments.

The following settings are specified in the constructor of the `Staking` contract

* the address of the ERC20 token
* the starting block
* the duration (in blocks)
* the soft lock period (in blocks)

## Fund

The `Staking` contract will transfer the reward from the contract owner to the staking users. The owner must set an
allowance for the `Staking` contract using the `approve()` method of the ERC20.

**Do not transfer tokens to the `Staking` or `Deposits` contract. These tokens will be lost.**

## Adding token pools

Tokens are distributes amount users that has deposited specific ERC20 tokens. These token pools must be specified in the
contract using the `add` method of the `Staking` contract. Each token pool have a `pid` which is an incremental number

Token pools must be added before the starting block.

### Reward per token deposited

The `add` method takes a `rewardAmount` and `rewardDivider` parameter. If the amount is `10` and the divider is `1000`,
the contract will pay out `10 / 1000 = 0.01` for every deposited token.

## Capped deposit

It's possible to cap the deposit for a specific token using the `cap` method on the `Deposits` contract. This method
takes 4 parameters; `referenceToken`, `referenceAmount`, `cappedToken`, `cappedAmount`.

Example; if the reference amount is `10000` of token FOO, and the capped amount is `500000` of token BAR, then users
can deposit max `5 BAR` per `1 FOO`. 

## Deposit

To participate in staking, users must deposit tokens using the `deposit` method on the `Deposit` contract.

Before using this method, the staking contract must be allowed to transfer the tokens. This is done via the `approve`
method on the token contract.

### Deposit multiple sets of tokens

It's possible to deposit different ERC20 tokens in one request using the `deposit1`, `deposit2`, or `deposit3` methods.

### Deposited info

The current deposit can be checked using the `deposited` method.

The `depositedCapped` method returns the total amount a user is allowed to deposit of a capped token and the number of
tokens the user has deposited of that capped token.

The `maxDeposit` method provides how many tokens a user is allowed to deposit in case of a capped token.

## Withdraw

Participants can withdraw their deposited tokens and rewards at any time using the `withdraw` method on the `Staking`
contract.

The `withdraw` method on the `Deposit` contract should only be used in case of an emergency. The user will get back the
deposit but not receive any rewards.

## Reward

Each participant has a pending reward which is hold by the staking contract. The pending reward can be checked using
the `pending` method.

When the program has ended, the user is able to harvest the reward from the `Staking` contract. Calling the `harvest`
method will transfer the reward from the contract owner to the user. The `harvest` method differs from the `withdraw`
method, as it will only transfer the reward and will not withdraw the staked tokens.

When the deposited tokens are withdrawn, the contract will also pay out the reward.

### Soft lock

A soft lock period is specified when creating the contract. If a user withdraws during this period, a part of the reward
will be burned instead of paid out.

The penalty is a percentage of the reward. This is 100% at the starting block and 0% when the soft lock ends. The
penalty is calculated with a linear formula.

### Statistics

The `paidOut` property of the `Staking` contract contains the total number of tokens that are paid out as a reward.

The `burned` property of the `Staking` contract contains the total number of tokens burned as a penalty during the soft
lock period.

## Administrative actions

There are a number of administrative actions that can only be performed by the contract owner.

### Extending

The staking program can be extended by calling the `extend` method. This will set a new end date.

It is not possible to extend the soft lock.

### Termination

The program can be terminated by the owner by calling the `terminate` method. No more rewards will be given through this
contract. Users may harvest the pending reward from the contract.

This will also end the soft lock period, so rewards are paid out in full.

### Replacing the program

Terminating the contract can be used to replace the program. Deposits stay intact, so it's possible to create a new
program based on the existing deposits.

The new contract will not hold the rewards of the terminated contract, so the frontend must combine the rewards of
both contracts in the UI.
